---
title: Article 1 Part 1
date: 2019/02/04
category: Japan
published: false
---

# Week 1: 1/29/19 - 2/3/19 Part 1

Since I want to get in the habit of doing a weekly update, I wanted to cover the first few days as my first week. I figure those alone will have enough content to fill a post. After writing this first post, I realize pictures would really have helped visualize some of the struggles and experiences I went through. For future posts, I will try to incorporate more of this.

## Travel
Having heard stories from my sister about the struggles of international travel, I felt I was mentally prepared for what was to come. For the most part it went rather smooth. 

I was traveling with a fellow classmate, Katey, who I took my Japanese language courses with. We were both working for the same company, except different braches; we weren't sure yet if we would be living in the same location because I had not received any information on my residences or the location of the office I would be working at. Only that I was to arrive at Katsuragawa Station between 6:30-7:00pm. Actually, let's back up and cover what I did know at this point. Don't worry, it will be short.

Information I knew prior to moving to Japan:
* I would be working for [Omron Healthcare](https://omronhealthcare.com/). But, I did not have any information on what I would be doing for them.
* I would be making ￥80,000 a month. This roughly equates to $800 per month.
* I was recommended to fly into Kansai International Airport (KIX - Osaka). I was told to make my way to Katsuragawa Station (~1.5 hours away by train) between 6:30-7:00pm. Following that, I would meet some of my team who would take me to dinner, shopping for apartment essentials, and finally be taken to my apartment to end the night. Work started the next morning and I would be met at the train station by a coworker who would walk me to work.

Goes to show that not a lot of details were known for traveling half way around the world for a job. I didn't even know where my apartment was and never even saw pictures.

#### Flight 1: CVG -> ORD (7:48pm - 8:19pm)
To resume, Katey met up with me at CVG (Cincinnati) and from there we took our first of three flights to ORD (Chicago). We had about a 3.5 hour layover and that felt just about right on time. We had to exit our terminal past the TSA checkpoint, take a bus to the international terminal, and submit to our second security checkpoint of the trip. I of course dropped my neck pillow on the bus in the muck that was on the floor from the mud and water on people's shoes since it was raining that night. Not the best start. Also, when I was through security in CVG I filled up my water bottle, but forgot to empty it before going through security in ORD. It's the little things that throw you off mentally when you're in a rush. 

#### Layover 1: ORD (3:36)
After getting through security and finding our gate, I set my stuff down with Katey to find some food since I figured the food selection would be larger in the international terminal in Chicago. I did not figure that all the restaurants would close at 9pm (on second thought it could have been 10pm, I just know I missed it by 2 minutes). I had to settle for a not-so-fresh $10 pita sandwich from one of the one-stop shop stores.

#### Flight 2: ORD -> ICN (11:55pm - 5:00am +1)
I assumed this next flight to Souel, South Korea would be large since it was for ~14 hours. After boarding, I realized I was glad to have had a whole row to myself on the previous flight because the flight was basically sold out. I took a risk when booking and chose a window seat with the hopes of being able to sleep against the wall even though I knew that would give me less leg room (even less than I thought actually because the right side of my leg room was actually blocked by part of the seat in front of me). Earlyish into the flight Katey (who also had a window seat) ran into another issue when she had to use the restroom, but both of the people between her and the aisle were asleep and she didn't want to wake them. However, the risk paid off for me; I was able to use the restroom the one time I needed when my neighbor got up and I felt like I was able to get roughly 6 hours of sleep on-and-off throughout the night. Wait, who am I kidding the whole flight was the night. We departed ORD at 11:55pm local time. Our flight landed 5:00am the next day with a time change. The whole 14 hours of the flight, it was pitch black outside. Very nice for sleeping, but kind of messes with your body after all you've seen is nighttime for over 20 hours. Back to the seat though, the negative Katey and I realized  Surprisingly, the food was decent! Definitely the highlight of this flight for me. My options for breakfast were rice and fish or an omlette with ham, which I chose. Each of the meals came with a muffin, 5 pieces of fruit, and yogurt. Apparently, there was even an earlier meal about 2 hours into the flight that I missed (no one woke me which is fair enough). The rumor is that steak was one of the offerings for the first meal. One thing I felt was lacking on this flight was the in flight entertainment. This flight was a Boeing 777 so it did have the monitors in the headrest in front of you. But, there were only a couple channels and anytime I switched to one, nothing was on. Therefore, I just left mine on the plane tracker. The system seemed kind of outdated anyways.

#### Layover 2: ICN (3:05)
The Souel mall, I mean airport, was very nice. By that I mean, I have never seen so many high end designer shops in an airport. We're talking Victoria Secret, Lacoste, Swiss watches. Then you have all the restaurants and those seemed just like a mall as well. I think this was one of the weirdest experiences so far in the trip as well because it was the first time where I felt like I was the minority. Everything was in ~~Korean~~ and some of it was translated to Japanese, but honestly there was not much English. Even to find our plane, we couldn't read the departure board because it wasn't in English. We resorted to the basics of looking for the Asiana Airlines logo and finding our flight number then hoping the number next to that was the gate number. Our bet paid off. Prior to getting to our gate though we did have to go through security again, yet this was the most relaxed security we went through the whole trip, with the exception of maybe customs. Nonetheless, The Souel airport is actually where I had the most disappointing part of my trip so far. I was hungry and not sure what kind of food or how much to expect on the next flight if any. So I went perusing the restaurant menus. It had just turned 6:00am; therefore, not many of the resaurants had their full menus available to order yet. I saw a Dunkin' Donuts, but wanted to try to eat healthy (dumb mistake if you ask me) and saw this sushi restaurant that looked pretty clean as far as food goes (boasted only 5 major ingredients except the meat that you ordered). The name was Robot Gimbab. I couldn't understand much of the menu, but two of the things I did understand were "German Sausage" and "Ham & Cheese". Now, I assumed "German Sausage" meant something similar to Kielbasa or the likes. What I got was a Vienna sausage (and yes it was cold too) with brown rice, carrots, and cucumber all in a seaweed wrap. The "Ham & Cheese" roll I should have just known better. But, it was either that or gimbab and since I still dont know what gimbab is, that was the one I chose. I think the roll could have been good, I just felt like the quality was not there. Tasted like Walmart ham and cheese. ~~End rant.~~

#### Flight 3: ICN -> KIX (8:05am - 9:40am)
This. This was my favorite flight. As nice as the Souel airport + great food. This flight I chose an aisle seat, except I was in the middle column of 3. I realized this is a great seat. Not only do you have extra leg room and can you go to the bathroom easily, but also the person in the middle has two options of how to get to the restoom too, so your odds of being disturbed dropped in half. Other reasons this flight was great: shortest flight of my trip, entertainment system was miles above the last (I'm talking Hollywood new releases, TV shows, music, nicer flight tracker; I mean you just couldn't get bored, I felt like I was in a mattress store, you just have to try them all), and the food was excellent. I'm still not sure exactly what it was. Essentially the dish was very basic though with rice, I think pork, and a spicy red sauce. Overall, I'm impressed with the food options on Asiana Airlines. I was pleased with both flights and would recommend.

## On the Ground
We landed in Osaka mid-morning (~10am) which means I had roughly 8.5 hours to make it roughly 50 miles. Seemed easy enough. Katey and I deplaned, then proceeded to immigration. We were singled out of the line and escorted to special processing. I'm not sure if this is because we have Cultural Activities visas or, frankly, just because we were white and looked foreign and probably didn't speak the language. Either way, I'm not complaining because we skipped most of the line and were sent to our own separate line. After making it through immigration, we collected our bags and then went through customs. Contrary to my assumptions, the easiest part of the trip was actually customs. 

Next, was communication...I had talked with previous coop students and my parents and decided that I would use roaming service of my US phone carrier until I could determine my address in Japan and order a pocket wifi (hotspot) to be delivered a couple days after (the cheapest pocket wifis for long term stay aren't available at the airport, only online). Once in Japan, my phone easily connected to a local cellular provider, except I couldn't get data. Which was a very big complication considering most of Japan is traversed via train and Google Maps is the best tool that even most Japanese use to navigate the train system. Meanwhile, Katey was having trouble ordering a pocket wifi from one of the local retailers in the airport. I ended up letting her use my credit card to get her pocket wifi from the second retailer we tried since the first didn't work with her phone (We suspect because her card holder blocked her international charge). 

After a couple hours of figuring out how to communicate, we had to figure out transportation. Originally, we thought Katey and I might be going the same place; however, I figured out she was going to Nara, a suburb of Kyoto, and I was going to Katsurawagawa Station. I stuck around until she figured out her transportation by bus to Nara Station. After that, I went about figuring out how to navigate the train system. Luckily, with KIX being an international airport, there was a JR (Japanese Rail) ticket office where the attendents spoke English. Purchased a train ticket to Kyoto Station. Finding the correct tracks and car took some effort and asking a transit officer in broken Japanese if I was in the right place. Kyoto station was even more confusing with even more tracks. I found the JR ticket office here and purchased a ticket to Katsuragawa Station. At this point, I just had to wait 3 hours before I was supposed to take the train to meet my team at 6:30pm. Only difficulties I ran into with that is that I was traveling during rush hour, I didn't know the track number that the train was departing from, and I had trouble finding out because all of the train departure boards were in Kanji.

Eventually, I made it. Three of my team members met me outside the gates of the train station: Ito-san, Terazawa-san, and ~~female coworker~~. We did introductions then they took me to Aeon mall next door to the station. The mall has a "Japanese street" which I'd describe as a Japanese food hall. I let them chose the restaurant and the food order (not like I knew any better, I couldn't read any of the Kanji). I'm still not sure what we ate that night, but the just of it was raw fish, rice, miso soup, and some shredded cooked fish. For the record, I'm very picky on raw fish and this one just wasn't my cup of tea (in fact on the last piece, I just ate it in one bite because I kind of wanted to be done with it and then I gagged, but that doesn't leave this blog, or well I guess the internet now), but I didn't want to be rude and not eat it after they chose the meal and were paying for it. During dinner, we talked about hobbies, interests, Omron, and languages. After we wrapped up dinner, we went shopping in the mall for some essentials: a drying rack for clothes, toilet paper (no bidet for me), hangers, etc. Mind you, I still had my bags with me from traveling. So I'd been lugging around a large suitcase, a 60L hiking pack, and a backpack all day. After finishing shopping I was hoping to relax and drop some of the luggage. First, we had to make it to my apartment.

One stop on the train and a 13 minute walk and I was finally home for the next 6.5 months. The place was actually about as I expected. Lofted "bedroom", one full bathroom, small living room and even smaller kitchen. ~~Pictures posted~~.  I'm living in an apartment complex called レオパラス21 (Leopalace21); from my understanding, it is a national chain that is known for cheap, foreigner housing. After tossing my bags down, I was ready to just roll out my futon pad and crash on it. But my coworkers who came over to show me in insisted on helping me get settled in. They spent 40 minutes trying to figure out how to set up the TV smart stick while I unpacked. They couldn't figure out how to set it up in English, so I just told them to do it in Japanese and I'd just changed the language to English after as it was asking for all kinds of information and authentication from these forms I was given. Now of course everytime I turn the TV back on, I have to try to read the Japanese and figure out what it's asking as it resorts to the default language; ~~picture~~ luckily, I'm a pro by now. Finally, after getting the TV setup, they took off and I crashed on the futon pad in my loft, not caring to add the sheets or anything else. 

## Breather
At this point, this first post is getting quite lengthy, I'm getting tired of scrolling, and I just want it done. I told you I hate writing. No lies there. I'm going to break it up. This is the end of Part I. If you're liking it, head on over to Part II to hear about Terazawa-san challenging me to who could drink the most beer (probably don't even need to read the article to know who won) and the two amazing dishes I had on my first full day in Japan. Oh yeah, and I guess that thing called a work. 
