---
title: Article 1 Part 2
date: 2019/02/11
category: Japan
published: false
---

# Week 1: 1/29/19 - 2/3/19 Part 2

Welcome back. I'm going to pick back up right where I left off.

## On the Job
I woke up the next morning feeling pretty good despite not sleeping much that night. I was to meet Terazawa-san at the Katsuragawa Station at 8:30am as the standard start time for work in Japan is 9am (Bless up). I remembered the way to Nishioji Station from my backstreet apartment and tried my best to remember which train to get on. Luckily, there are only two choices: Kyoto or Osaka. I remembered the night before taking a train from Kyoto Station (assumed this was downtown Kyoto) to Katsuragawa and that was heading to Osaka. Then, after dinner we took a train one stop from Katsuragawa towards Kyoto and got off at Nishioji. Therefore, I was feeling pretty confident that the my destination was one stop away on the Osaka train. To play it safe, I left extra early. My directional skills paid off and I got off at Katsuragawa Station to wait for Terazawa-san. Terazawa-san was probably the most talkative of everyone I'd met so far, so the walk to work went by quickly. It was also only ~8 minutes. I won't bore with too many first day details. The just of it is this: I was shown my desk, I met my team leader, met the president of the company, got my laptop, met my team, did morning stretches, got a tour, and received my first two assignments. I can't discuss specifics of the projects I work and I'll mention this more next week. Which means, almost everything I say about work will be under the subject of personal, social, or not confidential. Oh, by the way did I mention I met the President of Omron Healthcare within my first half hour of being at work. Yeah, not intimidating at all or anything. All that Japanese introduction stuff we learned during the summer intensive course went right out of my head. Luckily, they didn't expect me to have much Japanese knowledge. I kind of liked it better this way because I surprised my coworkers when I did show understanding of more than just one-line comments. Around noon I went to lunch in the cafeteria in Omron with some of the coworkers I'd met so far. Everyone asked me loads of questions and yada yada yada; let's get to the important part: the food. I didn't understand the way the lines worker, and even when my coworkers tried to explain to me, I felt hurried by the crowd and just went to one. I ended up with udon. It was amazing. And this was just their version of cafeteria food. I wondered what homemade was like. This is where I realized that the next months I was going to get to try some fantastic local food. It made me totally forget the night before when I gagged on the raw fish. After lunch we did "chill out" as Terazawa-san calls it. 

~~picture of trainStationRelative~~

At this point I'm going to introduce something I might start to do more often from here on out, but to save some content for later posts I'm going to press pause on some subjects. This is probably one of the only posts that will be entirely chronological, so it's likely that "chill out" time will get brought up again. 

Back to the day, I worked on my assignments until 5:30pm, which is when I get off. Terazawa-san mentioned during lunch that he wanted to take me to his favorite restaurant that night after work. After he wrapped up his work for the day, we hopped on the train up to Kyoto Station. We talked shop for a minute, but it got more casual really quickly when Sho (Terazawa-san's first name) started asking me what I liked to drink. We started discussing beer beer and I promised if I found my favorite beer, Blue Moon, in Japan, I'd buy him some to try. He started asking me if I drink a lot. While I don't think I drink a lot by my friends' standards, my own, or any other 22 year old's, the amount of alchohol I've seen consumed in Japan has been pretty low compared to what I'm used to seeing in the US. I explained and said I thought so by their standards. Well he took that as a challenge to out drink his new American friend. 

We made it to the restaurant; to my surprise it was Chinese! Sho ordered for us. In two hours we killed 5x22oz Asahi bombers, 3x18ct orders of gyoza (what we in America know as potstickers), and some great conversation. After this night out, I was starting to feel like I'd made my first real friend in Japan. For anyone who was wondering, I did drink more beer; however, Sho left me in the dust on food. He ate 2 of the gyoza orders and another set meal. I'm not sure where he puts it all because it happens every lunch too.

Sho wanted to pay for everything; he said he knew my salary and wanted it to be his treat. I wouldn't allow it since my coworkers already paid for my dinner the night before and I drank more beer than he did. I told him I'd pay drinks if he paid food. After settling up, we went to Kyoto Eki (Kyoto Station) and said our goodnights on the train. 

Once I got home I crashed hard. This night was just what I needed. A friend to goof around with, smash some food, some alcohol to loosen up, and the alcohol to make me tired by the time I got home. 

## My First Two "Holidays"

Earlier the night before on the train, Sho asked me what I'd do with my first "holidays." Took me a minute to understand what he was saying as I didn't think that first weekend was a holiday in Japan, until I remembered, the term "yasumi." Yasumi in Japanese is a little more vague as it applies to holidays, breaks from school such as spring break, absences from work, and even weekends (although there is another term for weekend in Japanese). To be honest, I hadn't had any plans for my first weekend in Japan. The sleep deprivation was starting to catch up to me so I knew I wanted to rest. But, other than that, I didn't feel confident enough to go an explore. I was still on roaming from Verizon in the States which meant that I was borrowing service in Japan. **Bad idea.** Verizon said that I'd receive data and cellular roaming while I had the service activated. The cellular was great. I could talk to my girlfriend and parents easily without having to worry about stuggling to find wifi. Opposite to that, the data was awful. We're talking 1-3 min to load a single web page. I could forget about trying to use Google Maps to navigate. Luckily, on Friday Terazawa-san offered to order me a mobile wifi (hotspot) from online since I didn't know my address to ship one to. I just had to make it to next Tuesday. It was actually super nice of him and totally unexpected for him to order my hotspot. To this day, Terazawa-san has gone above and beyond helping me make Japan my home.

My first weekends consisted of little wins. Saturday after fully unpacking, I ventured out. I needed household items desperately. 
* Trash can: At this point, I didn't understand the trash system still. But I also didn't have a trash can or trash bags yet. All of my trash was sitting on my living room floor in plastic bags from the grocery store. 
* Towel: Somehow, I did not think to bring a towel to Japan. Before you judge, yes I had been taking showers. My drying method consisted of a smaller workout towel that I had brought for some reason or a t-shirt that was worn the previous day. 
* Laundry basket: Currently, my dirty laundry was just laying on the floor.
* Kitchenware: Pots, pans, tubberware, plates, bowls, silverware. I needed to be able to sustain myself instead of relying on eating out only.
* Food: All I bought the first night that I arrived in Japan was bread, butter, and maybe milk. They were helping me shop and asked what I wanted to get for breakfast the next morning and I was thinking something simple so I said peanut butter and bread. They didn't catch the peanut butter part, likely because peanut butter is not very popular in Japan. It is pretty hard to find. But, when they directed me to the butter, I just went with it. Struggling to communicate after that long day was the last thing I wanted. Therefore, I bought bread and butter. Breakfast on Friday and Saturday was just a single piece of bread. 
As you can see there is a trend here. Sometimes you just have to make do with what you have. Things are likely always not going to go your way when you first move to a foreign country without knowing the language. 
* Pillow: My futon pad came with one pillow, but it was the decoration pillow. Besides that, it wasn't a good pillow to sleep on. The bedding did come with an extra pillow case, but currently I had no extra pillow.

Saturday, I went to the mall I encountered the first night in Japan when my coworkers took me out to eat. Luckily, they had wifi. Terazawa-san told me about this place the Japanese call hyakin. It comes from the term "hyaku en" which means ￥100 shop. It's essentially a dollar store. But to be clear, it's more like Dollar General not a Dollar Tree; meaning everything is not only ￥100, just very cheap. I used the mall wifi and found out there was a hyakin chain, Daiso, that was in the mall I was in. Score. Now I just had to find it. Oh, did I mention the mall directories were all in Japanese with some thick Kanji. Alright, I was doing this the old fashion way. Hide & Go Seek style. 

On my second time walking around the 3 floor mall, I found the shop. This shop was a good move. I spent ￥3,100 at the store. Roughly $31. I don't think I need to explain that math. I saved probably close to the same amount of money by choosing to find the hyakin instead of buying at a major retailer like Aeon so my confidence was high. Now, I just had to carry 3 large bags of purchased goods across the mall, 3 minutes to the train, a 4 minute train ride, and a 13 minute walk home (really missing my car if you can't tell).

After stopping off at my place to drop off my bags, I went to the neighborhood market I noticed on my way home from the train. I'm not going to bore you enough to explain what I bought because I'm sure the Japanese supermarket with be an article of its own later on. However, the most important item I bought that day was a ￥500 bottle of Sangria. Alcohol doesn't solve everything, but it helps me relax. Probably just placebo.

Since I hadn't found all the things I needed at the Aeon Mall next to my work, on Sunday I needed to go out again. Aftering talking to my girlfriend and having her look up a couple places for me, the store I needed was in fact in the other Aeon Mall -- 1.5 miles away. With my luck, there was also no train stop out that way. But, it gave me a chance to explore the area around where I live. My girlfriend sent me a picture of the map and I went on my way. Turns out I found everything I needed there in the Aeon Store. Which means the mall I was at the day before probably had what I needed, I just couldn't find it. I carried a trashcan filled with a towel, a swiffer, and other household goods 1.5 miles back to my apartment. Again, about that car man. Took the rest of the day off and caught up on that remaining sleep I felt I was missing. 

Not the most exciting weekend for sure. Nonetheless, everything was necessary. The next weekend though would be filled with travel and beautiful tourist spots. Stay tuned for photos.

## Some Relevant Vocab (If You Want It)
English (USA) | Romaji (JPN) | Hiragana (JPN) 
------------- | ------------ | -------------- 
Station       | Eki          | えき 
Udon          | Udon         | うどん 
Yen           | En           | えん 
Holiday/Break | Yasumi       | やすみ        
Name          | Onamae       | おなまえ       
Hyakin        | Hyakin       | ひゃきん